About the toolkit
=================

This toolkit is a resource intended to make it as easy as possible to organise
a workshop aimed at raising awareness of and facilitating discussion around the
diversity of roles that contribute to research.


.. _why_is_the_topic_important:

Why is the topic important?
---------------------------

In recent years, there has been an increased perception of the potential for
interdisciplinary and collaborative research to address complex societal and
environmental needs. It is also becoming increasingly clear that a diversity
of roles and contributions is needed to drive progress and success in research
and innovation.

Realising it is no longer the case  - if it ever was - that all researchers
need to - or indeed can - have all of the skills needed to find answers to
large and complex societal questions, the knowledge sector is now looking
towards a team-based approach bringing together more overtly diverse team
members with specific skills in funding, research design, data analysis, data
management, software development, research ethics, political relationships,
dealing with business, interdisciplinarity, communications etc.

What does this new thinking mean in practice? What skills are needed to
successfully carry out research today? How are different teams composed,
managed and rewarded? Can research morph from a sector where only ‘star
researchers’ are appreciated to one where everyone, including professional
support staff, is recognised for their skills and contributions?

This toolkit helps put together and organise a workshop that explores what a
dream research team might look like and discuss what this might mean for how
research is supported, managed and rewarded.


.. _why_this_toolkit:

Why this toolkit?
-----------------

The authors organised a workshop on this topic at the `Dutch National Open
Science Festival 2022 <https://2022.opensciencefestival.nl/>`_, which led to a
lot of engagement and discussion. Subsequently, the organisers received
requests from colleagues at other institutions to host similar workshops.
Rather than organising further workshops, we felt it would be more useful and
more sustainable to provide others with the tools and information necessary to
organise their own workshops. Therefore, we created this toolkit to support
anyone who wishes to organise similar future workshops and to make it as easy
as possible for them to do so.


.. _for_whom:

For whom?
---------

This toolkit is for those who want to organise a workshop aimed at facilitating
discussion and raising awareness about the diversity of roles and contributions
to research.