Goals and possible outcomes
===========================

The primary goal of the workshop is to start the discussion and raise awareness
by getting researchers and professional support staff together in one room
collaboratively thinking about the skills and roles needed for effectively
tackling complex research questions. Participants will leave with an increased
awareness of the many skills, experiences and roles that contribute to the
success of the research system.

For instance, during our first workshop at the `2022 Edition <https://2022.
opensciencefestival.nl/>`_ of the `Netherlands National Open Science Festival 
<https://opensciencefestival.nl/>`_, many insights were shared. Ideas such as 
the need for traditional support to move from 'answer as questions come in' 
towards embedding expertise within the faculty/school/group, based on the idea 
that if you build a relationship, you can achieve so much more than with 
central, anonymous support. And that what is needed for this is a change from 
project management thinking (finite, disconnected) to more integral programs 
and continuous change and value based working is needed. Project goals should 
be better linked to larger goals, which are often mentioned in the strategy of
universities, but are not easy to find in the actual projects. Moreover, while
discussing these kinds of new approaches, it is important to rethink how to
successfully engage with other colleagues and build effective collaborations.
For instance, values like shared ownership can help to engage larger teams;
people then feel connected to the project as a whole, even when they are
responsible for just a small task. Above all, all participants stressed the
importance of appreciating everyoneâ€™s contributions.

By discussing these points with others in the workshop, participants are likely
to start thinking differently about research teams and how these teams are
supported, managed and rewarded. At least a small proportion of the
participants may feel motivated to take this thinking further - either through
specific actions within their own sphere of influence, and/or through engaging
in broader activities aiming at enhanced cooperation, synergies, and
transdisciplinary collaboration.

The topics discussed in the workshop are also directly relevant to the ongoing
reform of research assessment and other current developments on recognition and
rewards in academia. The workshop may help research performing institutions
raise awareness and facilitate discussion on these topics.