Scenario
========

This document helps to create scenarios of research cases that can be discussed
within a workshop. We present the original scenario and questions used in our
workshop and the rationale behind it. We also generalise a list of core
elements that can be selected to construct new scenarios.


Original scenario
-----------------

This is the scenario we drafted for the workshop.

.. admonition:: Magic Mirror (M&M)

   The Magic Mirror (M&M) project aims to develop a personalised health mirror.
   You look in a mirror every day, the mirror *monitors your health* based on
   your look and not only *gives you health tips* (e.g. sleep more, drink more
   water), but also *tells you which diseases you might have* and *reports to
   your GP*.

   You are partnering with other institutions and commercial partners to
   develop, test and bring this product to the market. The consortium is
   composed of the following partners:

   * 3 universities (design, develop, test the product)
   * 1 industrial partner (co-design, develop, sell the product)
   * 1 health insurer (co-design, consume data)
   * 1 NGO (test, sell, use the product)
   * 1 Patient group (co-design, development, test the product)
   * Citizens (co-design, test the product)

In this scenario, the research topic is in the domain of health care. We chose
to set up a large consortium with various types of stakeholders, including
higher education institution, commercial companies, non-profit organisations,
and individuals. Given the research domain and consortium set up, it requires
numerous areas of expertise to handle, among others, privacy, ethics, legal and
security issues.


Core elements of a suitable scenario
------------------------------------

It is important to design your scenario with a certain level of complexity. The
complexity can be related to the number and diversity of stakeholders involved
in the research project and/or the stage(s) of the research life cycle the
scenario focuses on.

The **number and types of stakeholders** that are involved in the research
activities have an influence on the research management. It is more likely that
a project of a smaller size with similar types of stakeholders is easier to
manage than a larger project, with different types of organisations and
participants involved. In order to provide an illustrative case for the
importance of diverse contributions and skills for achieving research
objectives, it is preferable to develop a scenario which involves different
types of stakeholders (e.g. public or private organisations, researchers,
engineers, data stewards, lawyers, communication experts etc.).

Activities and objectives vary through **the stages of the research life
cycle**. A typical research lifecycle includes:

* Identifying research question and objective
* Securing funding
* Literature review
* Research design
* Data collection
* Research analysis
* Dissemination of research outputs
* Valorisation

Attention should also be paid to **domain-specific issues** where the
complexity lies.

You are free to design your scenario to cover one or multiple (or all) research
stages that suit your purpose. In each research stage, different activities can
take place which require different types of expertise (non-traditional
researchers). It is ideal that your scenario could address issues that are
associated with the research stage covered and domain specific issues. You
could consider the areas of expertise and corresponding roles from the
following table:

.. table::
   :width: 100%

   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Areas of expertise                | Roles                               |
   +===================================+=====================================+
   | Privacy and security              | * Privacy and compliance officer    |
   |                                   | * Data protection officer           |
   |                                   | * Legal counsel                     |
   |                                   | * Information security specialist   |
   |                                   | * Knowledge security officer        |
   |                                   | * Cybersecurity analyst             |
   |                                   | * IT security specialist            |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Ethics                            | * Research ethics committee member  |
   |                                   | * Research ethics board member      |
   |                                   | * Ethicist / Ethics adviser         |
   |                                   | * Diversity and inclusion officer   |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Commercialisation / valorsation   | * Business developer                |
   |                                   | * Intellectual property specialist  |
   |                                   | * Legal counsel                     |
   |                                   | * Technology transfer officer       |
   |                                   | * Entrepreneurship advisor          |
   |                                   | * Market and investment analysts    |
   |                                   | * Product developer                 |
   |                                   | * Marketing and sales professionals |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Citizen science / societal        | * Community Engagement Specialist   |
   | engegement                        | * Community Manager                 |
   |                                   | * Publication engagement officer    |
   |                                   | * Participatory research manager    |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Communication, education and      | * Communication Specialist          |
   | outreach                          | * Science writer / editor           |
   |                                   | * Event manager                     |
   |                                   | * Education & outreach coordinator  |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Data and software                 | * Data steward                      |
   |                                   | * Data manager                      |
   |                                   | * Data curator                      |
   |                                   | * Data scientist                    |
   |                                   | * Research software engineer        |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Project administration            | * Project manager                   |
   |                                   | * Finance / business control        |
   |                                   | * Contract manager                  |
   |                                   | * Research administrator            |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Project funding                   | * Grants officer                    |
   |                                   | * Grants adviser                    |
   |                                   | * Policy and strategy adviser       |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
   | Infrastructure and                | * Research infrastructure developer |
   | instrumentation                   | * Research application manager      |
   |                                   | * Instrumentation engineer          |
   |                                   | * Technician                        |
   |                                   | * Laboratory Manager                |
   |                                   | * Infrastructure manager            |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
